The vision for this team is collaboration as a means of shared ownership but also as creating awareness about the information that each team requires to do serve users properly. All user-facing functions that somehow have a stake in content production should be represented The goal of this team is to define a standard set of content to be produced, and produce it in a way that moves users along the user journey and from one content to the other. By creating a visible map of all the content pieces needed and where in the journey they surface, accounting for a user's previous knowledge and receptivity that stems from their emotional state, one can adapt the content better to its consumption. At the same time (but maybe this will be clarified at a later stage), their goal is to own their respective pieces of content, but also to create feedback loops with their respective teams and bring new ideas to the committee, as well as socializing the usage of the right content at the right time. Finally, this team should bring ideas and create experiments to improve the quality or effectiveness of the deliverables (even changing them if needed). Finally, their goal is to create awareness of what information needs to be produced during the software development cycle so that the whole process can be kicked off earlier and issues spotted in advance (shift-left). Coordinated releases, shared metrics, content tiering, definitions of ready/done, they can all be potential deliverables of this team. As the motivation hook, I want to use a story not an analogy. For the resistance: a combination of leadership endorsement + lean approach with experimentation in a small area/small cohort and with teams that aren't so mature (hence not so biased) and then scale it up.